Annotations:

"We are literally atop
untold histories: things, ideas, lives, and
activities that we have never seen before,
that we may know nothing of, and that
can thus endlessly surprise and transform
us. The very nature of archaeology, as a
subject open to interpretation when new
techniques, voices, and intellectual frameworks are introduced, furthers this facility
for surprise and transformation" Perry S. The Enchantment of the Archaeological Record. European Journal of Archaeology. 2019;22(3):355. doi:10.1017/eaa.2019.24 link

I feel like this is the main reason why many, if not most, people go into archaeology. Archaeology is a way to tell stories which have never been heard of before, or to corroborate history with actual evidence that these stories did occur, or didn't.

"Evidence indicates that our extant professional narratives
have not proven broadly successful at persuading people of the social benefits of
heritage (Nixon, 2017), and archaeologists
(perhaps the majority) lack the capacity
and support to create new narratives
(Wills, 2018: 33)." Perry S. The Enchantment of the Archaeological Record. European Journal of Archaeology. 2019;22(3):356. doi:10.1017/eaa.2019.24 link

This may be part of the reason why so much of the public believes pseudo-archaeological myths such as Atlantis and an Antarctic civilization, for instance.

"In other words,
the evidence that archaeology and heritage
institutions are genuinely realizing their
social value and civic welfare aims is questionable, if not non-existent." Perry S. The Enchantment of the Archaeological Record. European Journal of Archaeology. 2019;22(3):358. doi:10.1017/eaa.2019.24 link

I think this is especially true in countries which are either poor and people cannot be bothered to care about archaeology and museums when they're struggling to make enough money, and for countries whose museums do not have a strong tie to the material culture they are displaying, like many American or Canadian museums displaying Greek and Roman artefacts. Most people could not be bothered to learn of the importance of these artefacts.

"Between January and March 2022, crew aboard the International Space Station (ISS) performed the first archaeological fieldwork in space, the Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE)." Walsh, Justin, Shawn Graham, Alice C. Gorman, Chantal Brousseau, Salma Abdullah. 2024. Archaeology in space: The Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE) on the International Space Station. Report 1: Squares 03 and 05. PLOS One https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0304229 link.

I wonder if we ever go back to the moon, and permanentely settle there, a museum will be built around the American flag and footsteps by Armstrong and Aldrin. It would be the first museum outside of the Earth and very interesting.

This was a very interesting article to read. I wonder if in the future the vast amount of "garbage" orbiting our Earth will be studied in an archaeological context, since much of archaeology is studying peoples trash.

"While this has been critiqued
in recent years (for example, boyd and Crawford 2012,
Kitchin 2014a, 2014b) there remains a perspective that
everything is quantifiable, all is computable, and that once
digital, data become transformative, malleable, infinitely
flexible, all-powerful and all-consuming. Such ideas and
practices are embedded within a modern society which demands speed, instantaneous response, rapid development,
accelerated output, a belief in more as always better, and
the disruption of systems and organizations. One means
of resisting this has found its voice in the development
of a ‘slow’ movement which has found some traction in
both academic and activist communities in recent years,
a perspective in which ‘fast’ is seen to have lost sight of
the individual, of the social, of the importance of quality,
and of the value of people and things, resulting in a loss of
autonomy and control." Huggett, J. (2022). ‘Is Less More? Slow Data and Datafication in Archaeology’. In K. Garstki (Ed.), Critical Archaeology in the Digital Age. UCLA Cotsen Institute of Archaeology Press. pp. 97. https://escholarship.org/uc/item/0vh9t9jq#page=112 (scroll to chapter 6 if that link doesn’t quite take you there)

I think it is true that one of the most concerning problems in trying to create and gather data in archaeology as fast as possible with as much as possible is the risk of diminishing the significance of certain sites or data points which are very significant on their own.

I tried doing the image classifier and resurrecting Flinders Petrie assignment, but ran into issues both times, "gpt" apparently wasn't defined in the first, and a similar thing wasn't defined in the second.
